# PLAZA

This repository contains the experimental infrastructure for the paper "PLAZA: Proximity & Lifetime-Aware Zone Allocation for LSM Engines on ZNS SSDs".

## Setup

- Follow the instructions at [ConfZNS++](https://github.com/stonet-research/confznsplusplus) to install ConfZNS++ and create a ZNS-enabled virtual machine.
- Configure SSD and Zone size as needed for your experiment.
- Run the virtual machine with a simulated ZNS SSD attached.
- Use [zonedstorage.io](https://zonedstorage.io/docs/distributions/overview) as a reference to install ZNS libraries for your VM's distro.
- Clone this repository into the VM's home directory.
- Run the following:
```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
./recompile.sh
```

## Setting experiment parameters
Experiment parameters are defined in lines 7 to 31 of experiment.sh; modify the values to create a unique experiment.
- ssd_size_gb: Size of the SSD in GB, should be the same as the actual size defined when running the ConfZNS++ VM.
- zone_size_mb: Size of each zone in MB, should be the same as the actual size defined when running the ConfZNS++ VM.
- file_size_mb: The target size of each SST file.
- size_ratio: LSM parameter, the ratio between the maximum size of level-i and level-i+1
- files_in_l0: How many files can reside in Level-0 of the LSM tree.
- level_count: How many levels the LSM tree will have.
- workload_dist: User-defined identifier for this specific experiment setup. Can be set to any alphanumeric string with hyphens.
- key_size_b: The size of each input key in bytes
- value_size_b: The size of each input value in bytes
- entry_count: How many key-value pairs to insert in this experiment
- workload_size_gb: The size of the workload in GB, Automatically computed
- compaction_pri: The compaction policy of the LSM tree. 3 is the default for RocksDB.
- gc_interval: After how many seconds the garbage collection thread is woken up.
- reserve_count: How many zones are kept in reserve for garbage collection. Those zones can't be used for storing new files.
- gc_start_level: The percentage of free space of the SSD, under which garbage collection becomes active.
- gc_stop_level: The percentage of the SSD's capacity that the garbage collector wants to make empty. Can be set to a number greater than gc_start_level to use our improved GC. Can also be set to "no" to use the default GC.
- gc_slope: The aggressiveness of the default GC. Can be set to any integer greater than 0 in order to use the default GC. It can also be set to "no" to use the improved GC.
- dbbench_or_tectonic: Chooses whether to run a db_bench workload or a workload generated by Tectonic.

Note that one of gc_stop_level and gc_slope has to be a number, and one of them has to be "no". Both of them can't be numbers, and both of them can't be "no".

Each experiment will run multiple times, once for each zone allocation policy. Currently, experimenting with 6 zone allocation policies is available. "nearest" refers to PLAZA, and "nearest-30" refers to PLAZA-lambda with lambda = 0.3

## Running experiments with db_bench
Run experiment.sh for a single experiment.
Run automate.sh for running with 5 different gc thresholds: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, combined with 2 gc deltas: 2 and 10; for a total of 10 combinations.

```bash
sudo ./experiment.sh
```
or
```bash
sudo ./automate.sh
```

## Running experiments with tectonic
In line 30 of experiment.sh, set:
```bash
dbbench_or_tectonic=tectonic
```

To run a tectonic workload:
- go into the lib/tectonic directory
- Compile tectonic
- Run tectonic and create a workload file
- Rename the file to workload.txt
- Move workload.txt to the repository's root directory

```bash
sudo ./experiment.sh
```
or
```bash
sudo ./automate.sh
```

## Results
After an experiment is finished, a directory will be created in the home directory, which will contain all results. The directory's name will encode the first 13 experiment parameters. The directory will have one or more sub-directories, and their names will encode the last 4 experiment parameters. Each sub-directory will contain one sub-directory for each zone allocation policy in line 32. Those sub-directories will contain all log files generated for a single run of the experiment with that zone allocation policy.

Copy scripts/report_gen.sh into the first directory, and run. A file named report.csv will be created. The first block of report.csv shows the GC-induced data movement in GB for each zone allocation policy, under each combination of GC thresholds. The second block shows the experiment runtime in seconds, and the third shows the reset count.

For example, if experiments are run with the default setup, the experiment directory will be:
```
s32_z128_fs32_r10_fl0-4_lc4_ws27_wd-uniform_ks16_vs4096_ec7000000_cp3_gcint10
```
Suppose it contains the following sub-directories:
```
rsvz-10_gcstart-10_gcstop-20_gcslp-no
rsvz-10_gcstart-15_gcstop-25_gcslp-no
rsvz-10_gcstart-20_gcstop-30_gcslp-no
```
To generate .csv report files:
```bash
cd ~/s32_z128_fs32_r10_fl0-4_lc4_ws13_wd-random-row_ks16_vs4096_ec3500000_cp3_gcint10
cp ~/PLAZA/scripts/report_gen.sh .
chmod +x report_gen.sh
./report_gen.sh
```
